# Introduction #

Here are indicated some tips and trick to minimize power consumption using S110 SoftDevice, according [Nordic Developer Zone Q&A site](https://devzone.nordicsemi.com/question/5186/how-to-minimize-current-consumption-for-ble-application-on-nrf51822/).

# Useful tips about S110 & power consumption #
  1. **Choice of 32 kHz clock source**: already done; 32 kHz crystal oscillator is the better choice among three low frequency clock available (ext. crystal, RC oscillator and synthesized clock from 16 MHz).
  1. **Use of timers**: If using BLE, use the application timers that are generally used in the BLE examples in the SDK. Those use the RTC1 in the background which is very power efficient. Look at i.e. the ble\_app\_hrs example which has several application timers implemented. Low power mode with BLE softdevice Most BLE examples in the SDK will include the power\_manage call in the main function. This call uses the sd\_app\_event\_wait() softdevice call (or power\_manage()) which enables the System On low power mode, which keeps current consumption to a minimum.
  1. **Tuning connection parameters**: control of current consupmtion during connection is mainly a question of tuning the Bluetooth connection parameters. If your "connection interval" parameter is large, communication will be slow and your device will consume little current during connection and packet delay will be relatively large. Setting short connection interval will enable larger throughput and relatively short packet delay but your device will consume more current. "Slave latency" is another bluetooth parameter that allows the device to not respond to number of packets sent from the host. This will decrease current consumption of the device while still allowing data bursts with high thoroughput.
  1. **Tuning Advertising parameters**: The longer the advertising interval the less current will the device consume during advertising. However, when connecting to a central device, increasing the advertising interval will normally not decrease current consumption as it will take longer for the central device to discover the peripheral device. The result is that current consumption will be lower for the peripheral during advertising, but it will normally have to advertise for a longer time, therefore, energy consumed before connecting to the central will generally be more or less the same as when short advertising interval is chosen. Another parameter that effects the current consumption during advertising is how many payload bytes are sent in each advertising packet. It is e.g. typically 20%-25% lower current consumption during advertising if 10 payload bytes are sent in each advertising packet than the maximum of 31 bytes. Therefore, it may be beneficial in terms of current consumption to only place primary advertising data in the advertising packet and place all secondary data in the scan response packet, as advertising packets are sent much more frequently than scan response packets.
  1. **Compiler optimization**: enable compiler optimization in order for you application to be executed in as few instructions as possible. This will make the code execute faster and finish sooner and will therefore save power. To enable compiler optimization in Keil, select Options for Target -> C/C++ tab and set Optimization to “Level 3” and check “Optimize for Time”. In order for you to efficiently debug the application code in Keil, the setting should be however Optimization: “Level 0” and “Optimize for Time” should be unchecked.