#Summary Bluetooth low energy and 2.4GHz proprietary SoC

= Introduction =

The nRF51822 is a powerful, highly flexible multi-protocol SoC ideally suited for Bluetooth® low energy and 2.4GHz ultra low-power wireless applications. The nRF51822 is built around a 32-bit ARM® Cortex™ M0 CPU with 256kB flash + 16kB RAM. The embedded 2.4GHz transceiver supports Bluetooth low energy as well as 2.4GHz operation, where the 2.4GHz mode is on air compatible with the nRF24L series products from Nordic Semiconductor.
nRF51822 also incorporates a rich selection of analog and digital peripherals that can interact without CPU intervention through the Programmable Peripheral Interconnect (PPI) system. A flexible 31-pin GPIO mapping scheme allows I/O like serial interfaces, PWM and quadrature demodulator to be mapped to any device pin as dictated by PCB requirements. This enables complete design flexibility associated with pin-out location and function.
nRF51822 supports Bluetooth low energy protocol stacks as well as 2.4GHz protocol stacks, including Gazell, both available free of charge. nRF51822 requires a single power supply and gives the user the option of using on chip linear regulators giving a supply range of 1.8-3.6V, a direct 1.8V mode and a on chip DCDC buck converter giving a supply range of 2.1-3.6V. The use of the DC-DC converter can be dynamically controlled during run time and enables nRF51822 to operate at radio peak currents below 10 mA @ 3V supply (TX @ 0 dBm & RX).
nRF51 SDK provides extensive software support for both Bluetooth low energy and 2.4GHz proprietary applications.
nRF51822 is available in 6x6mm 48-pin QFN packages and 3.5x3.8mm 64 ball wafer-level chip-scale packages (WLCSP).
nRF51822 is available in either 256k or 128kB Flash size variants.
Nordic Semiconductor protocol stacks are known as SoftDevices. SoftDevices are pre-compiled, pre-linked binary files. SoftDevices can be programmed in nRF51 series SoCs and are downloadable from the Nordic web.
The nRF51822 supports the SoftDevices below (click on the icons for details).
 Bluetooth low energy peripheral/broadcaster role protocol stack
 Bluetooth low energy 8-link central/observer role protocol stack

= Feature =

 
* Single chip, highly flexible, 2.4GHz multi-protocol device
* 32-bit ARM Cortex M0 CPU core
* 256KB flash 16KB RAM
* Supports Bluetooth low energy protocol stacks
* Thread safe and run-time protected
* Event driven API
* On air compatible with nRF24L series
* 3 data rates (2Mbps/1Mbps/250kbps)
* +4dBm output power
* -93dBm sensitivity, Bluetooth low energy
* PPI system for maximum power-efficient applications and code simplification
* Flexible power management system with automatic power management of each peripheral
* Configurable I/O mapping for analog and digital I/O
 